---
title: "Week 10: Final Post/Reflection"
date: 2025-11-08
---

Last week, I had a bit of a scare with this project, specifically the website for the blog/posts that track my progress. After a long time fixing mistakes and adding slight adjustments, I got the site back to a good state, and now it’s looking much better than it was before. Now, I am making my **final touches** and reflecting on this project. 

---

### Changes to the Tool

While I intended to make visual changes to the tool on ShinyApps last week, I didn’t get to it due to the problems I ran into with the GitHub website. However, as I got into it this week, I noticed that there **wasn’t much to change**. I already established a nice New York Rangers theme with the red and blue colors integrated into my text, sliders, and even visuals. The optimizer table separates skater and goalie sliders symmetrically, and there isn’t anything that stands out in a bad way. I thought the same for the “My Team” page, too. I could add some details like the NHL team logos next to players on that team, but I felt like this would be a good bit of work that wouldn’t teach me much or add much value to the tool. Therefore, I only made a few tiny changes to the tool before considering it final.

First, I changed the text at the top to say this tool was for the **2025-2026 NHL season**. This is because the data I used to create this tool is best suited to predict performance for this season only. If people used this tool for future seasons, as the years go by, this tool would become less and less accurate. The other change I made was that I increased the step increments on the sliders of power play goals and assists, and shorthanded goals and assists. Before, they increased in increments of **0.25**, and I changed it to increments of **0.5**. The original increments were too small, and it is very unlikely any league would use some number like 1.25 points for a power play goal, for example. Changing to 0.5 was just more practical and easier to use those sliders. 

---

### Reflection

This marks the tenth week that I have worked on this project, which I expected to only take 6. I think that in itself shows how little I knew before this project, compared to how much I do now. I came into this project hoping to learn about optimization and have a fun tool to show for it. However, as I worked through this project, I uncovered more and more things I could learn and incorporate on top of just optimization. I did learn about optimization through lpSolve, but I also researched and incorporated some of those new things I discovered, like the possibilities of **CSS** and **HTML**. I now have experience with making an application and a **server/UI**, and I was even able to work through **reactive visuals** that change with user inputs. 

The first thing I think went really well in this project was my **data cleaning and exploration**. I made my own CSV through data straight from Hockey Reference, and it was very messy at first. However, I was able to quickly get rid of unneeded data, and through analysis of my data visualization was able to get rid of any errors or inconsistencies in the data. It was cool to see that the practice I had done during an online course actually helped with a real project. The other thing I am very satisfied with is the **outcome of the tool** itself. I didn’t plan on adding all the features that it currently has, but as I built the tool, the ideas kept coming, and I was very happy with how I incorporated them. I really like the reactive visuals that help users understand their team better, and I think comparing skaters and goalies with the visuals on the optimizer page can be very useful and is very cool.

While these are some of the best parts of the project, there are plenty of things I would have done differently if I were to rebuild this. I think **how my site looks** is the weakest part of this project. It serves the purpose that it needs to—but it is relatively plain and lacks the color or personality that I wish it had. However, I didn’t even incorporate any of this until last week, so it would be hard to completely change my site’s look that quickly. I think if I had added CSS and HTML sooner, this site would be visually set up much better. With this said, I don’t think any of this new knowledge would be possible had I not struggled through some of the problems I did in this project. For example, something as simple as **bolding words, keeping links blue, and adding images/adjusting their size** is something that I had to struggle with to understand how to do them. So while they could be better, I almost had to fail with these first before I could be aware of them.

This project was very fun. It was great to learn things that I am genuinely interested in and apply them to my own creation. With this project finishing, I am not done exploring or creating. Instead, I plan on moving to something that, with my new skills, I can execute even better.

---

### next project

Now I am very excited to take my new skills into my next project. With CSS and HTML, I can, from the beginning, set up a very nice-looking site where I **financially analyze** different companies. Although my next project won’t be related to hockey or optimization, I will likely add posts/updates to it similarly to how I have with this blog. I am eager to set a great foundation for this site with CSS and HTML, use my R and analysis skills to take a deep look at different companies, and develop new skills—finance-based skills.

With that said, I will be starting a **new GitHub repository** and site for this new project. When I have that set up I will link that site in this site, likely by my other links under the About Me section. Again, this is to have a clean slate and start this website off in the right track with my new skills.

---

### thank you
If you have been following along my journey and reading my posts, or only recently discovered my site and used the optimizer, thank you! Whether you are my mom’s friend, a friend from the Leafs, or someone I have never met, I am glad you found this website, and I hope you gained something from it. Feel free to reach out to me through my personal email that I added in the About Me section on the left side of the screen. If you like what was here, make sure to check out my next project, which will also be linked. Again, thank you!

---

### [Return Home](https://henrylange.github.io/fantasy-nhl-optimizer/)
