---
title: "Week 9: Adding Visual Touches to This Website"
date: 2025-11-02
---

Last week, I added the **"My Team"** section to my tool, changed some of the visual aesthetics on the tool, and changed some of the technical parts and functions of it. I am very happy with the functional state of the tool, so like I said last week, this week is focused on improving the look of this main site where my blog resides, and the same for the tool itself. However, this week quickly took a **big turn** in the wrong direction. 

---

### We Have a Problem...

When I started coding and editing for this week, I decided to begin by focusing on the **main website** where all my posts are located before moving to my tool. The first thing that I wanted to fix was that the description for the site and the text in each post only sat in the middle 35-40% of the screen, while there was major blank space on either side of the post/text. I thought this looked awkward, so I decided to experiment with an **"About me"** panel on the left side of the screen, then the rest of the page took up the remaining right side. I talked with my friend CJ, who has a very good-looking website he made for tracking our weekly pickleball games (yes, I play pickleball every Friday). I removed the previous theme—**minima**—and He helped me get started with the HTML and CSS files. Everything was going smoothly at first. I added a picture of myself for the About Me page, shown in this code:
```
.profile-img {
    width: 150px;
    height: 150px;
    border-radius: 50%;
    object-fit: cover;
}
```

After checking my progress on the About Me sidebar, I thought my picture was a little small, so I made **one tiny change**. I changed the **width** and **height** from 150 pixels to 200 pixels. When I refreshed the page, everything was messed up. The picture of me took up the entire site and was the only thing you could see. All my posts were gone, and my text was somehow tiny and all at the bottom, formatted incorrectly. I was extremely confused as to why my whole site broke over expanding this picture 50 pixels each way.

---

### Pressing the Panic Button

After this happened, I initially stayed calm. I just thought I would reset the code back to 150 pixels, and it would go back to how it was. Well, that didn't happen. I reset it back to 150 pixels, and my senior picture still **took up my entire screen** and site. I kept playing with it to get this to go away, and nothing worked. I tried to install the GitHub desktop application and revert my commits to GitHub from there, and that didn't work. I watched YouTube videos that didn't help, and I eventually called CJ, and even he had no idea what the problem could have been. After 45 minutes of nothing changing, I began to panic a bit. I was very concerned that all of my work for the blog section of this project was **gone**. 

After messing with reverting my commits on GitHub, my CSS file now has this in it:
```
<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
>>>>>>> parent of 9f528d8 (Update style.css)
=======
>>>>>>> parent of 9f528d8 (Update style.css)
=======
>>>>>>> parent of 9f528d8 (Update style.css)
```
I don’t know what will happen if I delete this, so even though it looks ugly, I am keeping it in the CSS code.

After stepping away from my laptop for a good bit of time, I got to the right solution. I remembered how my site was formatted well under the **"minima"** theme, so I added that back to my config.yaml folder. Lo and behold, my site was no longer consumed by a massive picture of my face. After I saw my site return to a normal state, I think I let out the **longest sigh of relief I have in my entire life**. 

I wasn’t done yet, though. The website was back to a more normal state, but I think the theme I had and my CSS/HTML files were working against each other, causing some formatting issues. I had to play with these files for a long time—especially the **CSS file**—to get my blog looking how I wanted. 

---

### Changes to the Blog Website

Here are some of the changes I made and the code that corresponds to those changes: 

## Fixing the picture
To be safe with the picture that messed everything up, I made sure to be extra careful and safe by adding a lot of properties to the .profile-image selector. Here are those properties shown below:
```
.profile-img {
    width: 200px;
    height: 200px;
    border-radius: 50%;
    object-fit: cover;
    margin-bottom: 1rem;
    display: block;
    margin-left: auto;
    margin-right: auto;
}
```
I altered this to be bigger, like I initially wanted it to be, and I also centered it and made sure it was on its own individual line using the “**display: block**” property. The image was exactly how I wanted it after I added these properties. 

## Adding personal links
I thought it would be pretty cool to have links to my **email, LinkedIn, and GitHub repository,** so I added links in the About Me section. This obviously allows anyone who sees this site to connect with me or explore further. I added the code below to add these links.
```
# in CSS
.social-links {
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
    gap: 10px;
}

.social-links a {
    font-size: 1.67em;
}

.social-links a i {
    margin-right: 0.5rem;
    width: 20px;
    text-align: center;
}

# in HTML
 <div class="social-links">
                    <a href="https://github.com/HenryLange/fantasy-nhl-optimizer/" target="_blank">
                        <i class="fab fa-github"></i> My GitHub repository
                    </a>
                    <a href="https://linkedin.com/in/henry-lange-253791377/" target="_blank">
                        <i class="fab fa-linkedin"></i> My LinkedIn profile
                    </a>
                    <a href="mailto:henrylange241@gmail.com">
                        <i class="fas fa-envelope"></i> My personal Email
                    </a>
                </div>
```
There is code in both the CSS and the HTML files that makes these links work. If you look in the HTML section, you can see things like **“ <i class="fab fa-linkedin"></i> My LinkedIn profile.”** This is basically putting a **little symbol** next to the corresponding link that helps users see what that link is quickly. For example, the one I pasted puts the LinkedIn logo next to my LinkedIn account link. I added an envelope for my Gmail and the GitHub logo for my repository.

## Link colors
Another thing I noticed was that almost all of my **links were the purple color** that appears after links have been visited. This wasn’t really a problem, but I would rather have them just stay blue. This was more of a personal preference change, not a very crucial one. Here is the code for that:
```
a {
    color: #0066cc;
}

a:visited {
    color: #0066cc;
}

a:hover {
    color: #004499;
}
```
This essentially gives all links the hex color 0066cc, which is the common light blue on links, and the “a:hover” makes it so that when a user hovers a link with their cursor, the link turns to a darker blue.

### The home button
The last change I will cover in this post is the **home button** that I added right above the About Me header. What this does is just give a very easy way to navigate to the home page from any post or other page on the website. Here is the code for that addition:
```
# CSS section
.site-nav {
    margin-bottom: 20px;
    padding-bottom: 15px;
    border-bottom: 1px solid #ddd;
}

.home-link {
    font-size: 1.341em;
    text-decoration: none;
}

# HTML section
 <nav class="site-nav">
                    <a href="{{ '/' | relative_url }}" class="home-link">
                        <i class="fas fa-home"></i> Home
                    </a>
                </nav>
```
You can also see how I added a **home icon** next to this link because I thought this would make it clearer what the link does, and it just looks good. In the CSS section, I multiplied the size of it so it appeared bigger and easier to see.

### Extra Changes
I made many more changes that I won’t show the code for. These extra changes can be seen in the code if you look in the CSS file I will attach below. Some of these changes include **creating a grey/blue border** around code in my posts, making sure headers are the right **font, size, and color**, and also making sure the website looks good and **reformats itself** if it is opened on a small screen like an iPad or phone. 

---

### What’s Next?

This week was definitely a bit of a roller coaster. At one point, I thought I was going to have to reset almost everything, but now I have my website looking better than it was before. I guess I can call this week a success in the end. 

You can see my code for this week here, in the [week 9 code](https://henrylange.github.io/fantasy-nhl-optimizer/code/week9/) page.

However, with all the time wasted on trying to save what I had, I wasn’t able to get into making **visual improvements on the tool** itself, or do the **reflection** I thought I could get done this week. I will have to push that to next week due to what happened this week. And I haven’t forgotten about the finance project I mentioned last week. I am still thinking about that, but again will have to get to it after my reflection.

---

### [Return Home](https://henrylange.github.io/fantasy-nhl-optimizer/)
